h2. City Profile and City Assessment

This document is designed to help you think about your local resources. Feel free to share it with other Brigade Captains for feedback and/or insight into how you can best tap your community’s resources.

endprologue.

h1. Code for [City Name] Assessment

This template is designed to help you think about your local resources. Feel free to share it with other Brigade Captains for feedback and/or insight into how you can best tap your community’s resources.

Copy and paste the text below or make a copy of our "Google Document":http://codeforaustralia.org. <!-- TODO -->

h2. Government

__Outline individuals, websites, and key personnel who can help you build a relationship with Government.__

h4. Jurisdictions & Agencies

h4. People

h4. Potential Partners

h4. Notable Legislation or History

h4. Existing open data portals


h2. Community

h4. Potential Brigade Names

h4. Foundations:

__List of foundations with links and a bit of context.__

h4. Adjacent Networks

h5. __Groups Meeting Monthly__

h5. __Groups Meeting Weekly__

h4. Public Forums / Good Government Organizations 

__List of foundations with links and a bit of context.__

h2. Facilities

__This is a list good to great places to host meetups. Locations should be accessible to all, have wifi, accessible power outlets, and tables and chairs for people to place laptops.__

h4. Co-working Spaces

h4. Meeting Spaces

h4. Event Spaces

h4. Libraries

h2. Potential Brigade Focus & Projects 

__Brainstorm a list of potential areas or projects where your Brigade could focus. These can be broad or specific. Try to get at least one suggestion from each person at your planning party.__

__Remember, do not limit yourself by drafting a list of solutions. Instead, focus on a list of community problems or enhancements you would like to see. Later, you can evaluate how to solve them (i.e. with technology, data, policy).__
