h2. How to Collaborate with Government

Collaborating with government is one of the defining criteria of a Brigade. We require this because we believe to build the most impactful solutions, both government and constituents must have a seat at the table. But collaboration is not always easy. It takes commitment from all parties, time, and a willingness to walk the proverbial mile in one another’s shoes.

endprologue.

Because government collaboration is so central to Code for Australia, we require Brigade Captains to have a Local Government Partner in local government. We also require Organizers to invite local government to Brigade sponsored events and encourage all Brigades members to participate more in their local government.

To help you get started, check out this video "City Hall and Civic Hackers: Lessons from Raleigh":http://www.codeforamerica.org/peer-network-training/08-07-2013/ and the information below.

h3. Ways to Reach Out & Collaborate with Your Local Government.

h5. Get to Know Your City & Local Government

The best way to get started working with the local government in your city is by getting to know it. Do some research, either by yourself or with your Brigade at a Hack Night. Some useful questions to answer include:
* Does your city have a strong mayor–council government system, a weak mayor–council system, or a council-manager government?
* Who is the mayor and who is on the city council?
* Are there any departments or government employees that would make good allies for your Brigade? Do you have a Chief Innovation Officer, Chief Data Officer, Office of Innovation, etc?
* Does your city have an open data portal? If not, are agencies publishing data?
* What other local groups are doing similar work? Have your local good government groups filed freedom of information requests and liberating data?

Research your city by completing "“City Profile”":city_profile.html document and share your findings with Brigade organisers on Yammer.

h5. Attend City Council Meetings

* Send a representative from your brigade to each City Council meeting. They can take notes and report back to your brigade on the meeting’s outcomes, city priorities, and any opportunities for overlap with current Brigade projects or opportunities for new projects.
* City Council meetings are great places to advocate for policies your brigade would like to see in your city, like open data or procurement reform. Council meetings are good venues for you to show support for the work your local government is doing. It’s important to recognize when your city does great work in addition to advocating when you want to see something change.

h5. Start a conversation with a government official, employee, or city councilor

* When reaching out to government, use Code for Australia. Email us at "info@codeforaustralia.org":mailto:info@codeforaustralia.org and we will let you know if we have any contacts in your local government.
* Once you have gotten familiar with your local government, you will probably get a sense of the department heads, councilors, or executives whose interests or areas of expertise overlap with your Brigade’s.
* Ask these folks to lunch or coffee. Understand what they are passionate about. See if there is any overlap with what you want to do and with technology.
* The more you meet with members of your local government, the faster you can learn about their processes, systems, constraints, intentions, and desires.

h5. Invite government executives, employees, or elected officials to your Brigade events, hack night, and meetups

* One of the most important and productive interfaces for collaborating with local government is being in a room together, and collaborating on solving problems face-to-face.
* Local government might not know about your group or how they can participate.
* Ask them to come to your Meetup or Hacknight. Invite them to participate in a Q&A or give casual presentation on their department to your group.
__“[Having local government at our events] makes it so much easier because we can eliminate a lot of assumptions we have about data or programs or how things work in city government that can help us move the needle faster.”__ -- Jason Hibbets, Brigade Co-Captain, Raleigh, NC

h5. Find a champion(s) in local government

* As you meet with folks in local government and as they come to your hack nights, there will likely be one or more who are highly engaged and enthusiastic about your group and the work it’s doing. As these champions emerge, make sure to find ways to keep them in the loop on what you’re doing and let them know how they can help.
* As Raleigh Brigade Captain Jason Hibbets says, __“You’ve got to find the champion. You’ve got to find your city councilor or department head who’s into technology, who’s into this stuff. That’s been pretty critical to our success.”__

h5. Find quick wins

* Is there a city project that has an easy technical solution? Are there city officials or departments interested in learning more about open platforms, open source, and open data?
* Finding quick wins, whether they are developing technology or helping your local government better understand your community, shows local government what your group does rather than just telling.
* Use your champion to extend invites to other city employees who want to collaborate more with the local developer community

h5. Meet at the Town Hall

* If 80 percent of success is really just showing up, showing up and meeting at the Town Hall can go a long way.
* Ask your local government officers whether you can implement a “hall pass” program, i.e. badges that let you meet with city staff where they work.

h5. Collaborate on a project or co-host an event

* Once you’ve established relationships with those in your local government, start working on something together. Whether it’s collaborating on an app or co-hosting an event, producing something together will be rewarding.

h5. Keep the dialogue going between the city and your Brigade

* As you build more and more relationships with local government, make sure to keep your contacts in local government in the loop. Continue to invite them to your meetings, make sure they’re aware of what’s happening and of your objectives.
* Don’t get discouraged if you hit roadblocks or go through periods where there are lulls.
* As Raleigh Brigade Captain Chad Foley says, __“Be patient. It’s going to take time to establish and build those relationships.”__

h5. Join citizen advisory councils and invite local gov to join leadership roles in your Brigade

* If there are commissions or councils in your city that overlap with areas your Brigade is working on, join them!
* Conversely, invite interested local government employees to be your Brigade’s Local Government Sponsor or Co-Captain.

h3. How can cities effectively collaborate with a local civic hacker community?

In Raleigh, North Carolina, local civic technologists from inside government and out have partnered to build an active Code for America Brigade: a volunteer group of civic geeks organizing civic innovation and technology as well as civic-minded community efforts in Raleigh to advance the open government and open data movements. Part of what has made their initiative so successful is the strong partnership between leaders from within local government and local developers.

Join this conversation with Chad Foley, and Jason Hibbets, co-captains of the Raleigh Brigade. Chad works for the City of Raleigh IT Department, and Jason is a project manager at RedHat — but in their spare time, they’re both civic hackers. Learn how they’ve built a strong working relationship and spurred collaboration between local government and the local developer community, working towards the common goal of making Raleigh a better place to live and work.

Watch the video: "http://www.codeforamerica.org/08-07-2013/":http://www.codeforamerica.org/08-07-2013/

__“You don’t have to show up ready to hack. Just show up ready to share information.”__ --Jason Hibbets, Project Manager at RedHat & Raleigh Brigade Co-captain

__“Try to find overlapping objectives. And see, and understand what the [local government] stakeholder’s goals are and what you’re trying to accomplish and try to marry those together.”__ --Chad Foley, City of Raleigh IT Department & Raleigh Brigade Co-captain

Questions? Comments? Send them to "info@codeforaustalia.org":mailto:info@codeforaustalia.org or hit us up "@codeforaus":http://www.twitter.com/codeforaus on Twitter with hashtag #cfabrigade.
