h2. Role: Delivery Lead

The Delivery Lead is the point for projects in the Brigade.

endprologue.

h3. Description

The Delivery Lead is the point for projects in the Brigade. The Delivery Lead should have a working knowledge of all the projects being hacked on at a given time in the Brigade, understand the needs of those projects, and help members find projects and projects find members.

The Delivery Lead’s areas of focus include:
* Responsibile for Brigade projects
* Active knowledge of all projects being worked on in local Brigade
* Understands needs of those projects
* Connects new members to projects
* Works with project teams and project leads on project planning and accessing resources
* Understands the priorities and needs of the city
* Funnels relevant Code for Australia Fellowship and Brigades apps to Brigade members for redeployment opportunities

h3. Relevant skills

This role is a great fit for someone with a project management background. Adaptability and great communication skills are also valuable for this role.

h3. Commitment

* Attend monthly Hangout for Project Lead Core Team Members
* Attend hack nights and Brigade events that generate projects such as hackathons
* Available for a few hours of communication per month on projects

h3. What Code for Australia Brigade Provides

* Training in relevant areas such as project management, user research, prototyping best practices, and more
*  Forum to connect with Delivery Lead core team members in Brigades across the world
* App redeployment support

h3. Metrics

* The Delivery Lead will track the following:
* Active projects
* Completed projects
* App redeployment
