h2. Strategic Plan Template

endprologue.

h3. Group Description

[ __Who are you as a group? Why are are motivated to create change? What do you want to change about your city?__ ]

h3. Core Leadership Team

h4. Our team includes:

h5. Captain(s) 

[ __People who have been accepted into the Captains program and made a one year commitment to organizing. In this year, they will lead their local community and collaborate with their local government to develop a local civic hacking practice.__ ]

h5. Storyteller

[ __People responsible for the communication streams for their local Brigade. They will focus on telling the stories of the Brigade’s impact in their community. This includes writing blog posts, coordinating with local press, connecting with local media, and working with the CfA Communications team to share stories nationally.__ ]

h5. Community Organizer

[ __People responsible for recruiting and welcoming new members to the Brigade and helping them get oriented. They are the point of contact for members who have questions about how to get started, what to do next, or how to help locally.__ ]

h5. Delivery Lead

[ __People with a working knowledge of all the projects being hacked on at a given time in the Brigade. These people must have a technical background and understand the needs of those projects, and help members find projects (and vice versa).__ ]

h3. Priorities This Year

[ __Describe what you want your Brigade to achieve over the next 12 months. What would success look like?__ ]

h3. Strategy & Tactics

[ __What specific steps can you take to get to your idea of success?__ ]

h3. Outcomes

[ __Here is what outcomes we’ll see if we’re successful. Conduct a thought experiment, imagine yourself 12 months from now having achieved all the success you envisioned. What happened to make this possible? Keep your goals "SMART", i.e. Specific, Measurable, Achievable, Relevant, Time-bound.__ ]


